# Introduction to Web Applications

**Web 1.0** - is where the web pages were static, and for any change, it had to be done by devs.

**Web 2.0** - presented the dynamic content based on user interaction.

**Front end trinity** is the common procedure to start by reviewing the web app front end compontents, such as `HTML, CSS, and JS`.

Once they are tested, we would review the app's core functionality and the interaction between the browser and webserver.

## Web app layout

The layout of a web app can be summarized with these three main categories:
- Infrastructure
- Components
- Architecture

### Infrastructure

Web apps use many different setups, or models. And the most common ones are these four types:
- Client - Server
- One Server
- Many Servers - One Database
- Many Servers - Many Databases

**Client-Server**
Components of the front end are usually interpreted and executed on the client-side (browser).

Components in the back end, usually compiled, interpreted, and executed by the hosting server.

When the user requests a function from the Web UI, the browser sends a HTTP request to the server, which interprets and performs the task to complete the request.

When the server has the data, it sends them back to the browser.

**One Server**
An entire or several web apps and their components such as databases, are hosted on a single server.

This is quite risky, as if any web app is compromised, then the data of all the apps will also be compromised.

**Many Servers - One Database**
It separates the database onto its own database server and allows the web apps hosting server to access the database server to store and retreive the data.

It allows several web apps to access a single databaseto have access to the same data without syncing the data between them.

The main advantage from a security point of view is segmentation, meaning that each of the components of a web app is located and hosted separately.

If the database is compromised, the web app is not directly affected.

There are still access control measures that need to be implemented such as limiting web app access to only data needed to function as intendend.

**Many Servers - Many Databases**
Within the database server, each app's data is stored in a separate database.

Only the common data is shared across web apps.

It's also possible to host each web app on its separate database server.

It's widely used for redundancy purposes, because if any web server or database goes offline, a backup will run in its place to reduce downtime as much as possible.

## Web app components

There are different components, and web apps have a different number of them.

But, they can be broken down to:

1. Client
2. Server
   1. Web Server
   2. Web Application Logic
   3. Database
3. Services (Microservices)
   1. 3rd Party Integrations
   2. Web Application Integrations
4. Functions (Serverless)

## Web app architecture

Three-layer architecture:
- Presentation Layer (UI components that enable communication with the app and the system).
- Application Layer (Ensures that all requests are correctly processed. Authorization and privileges are checked).
- Data Layer (Works closely with the app layer to determine where the required data is stored and can be accessed).

### Microservices
Independent of web apps, which are programmed for one task only.

The communication between these microservices is `stateless` emaning that the request and response are independent. 

They can also be written in different programming languages and still interact with each other.

### Serverless
Cloud proviers offer serverless architectures. 

These web apps then run in stateless computing containers such as dockers.

This gives the flexibility to build and deploy apps and services without having to manage infrastructure: all server management is done by the cloud provider.

