# Back-End Components

## Back-End Servers

It hosts all of the apps necessary to run the web app. 

The Back-end server contains three back-end components;
- Web Server
- Database
- Development Framework

There may be also other back-end servers such as hypervisors, containers, and firewalls.

There are some popular combinations of "stacks" for back-end servers, containing a set of back-end components:

| Combinations  | Components|
|---------------|-----------|
| LAMP          | Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP           |
| WAMP          | Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP          |
| WINS          | Windows, IIS, .NET, SQL Server          |
| MAMP          | macOS, Apache, MySQL, PHP          |
| XAMPP         | Cross-Platform, Apache, MySQL, PHP/PERL          |

## Web Servers

An application which handles all of the HTTP traffic from client-side browser, routes it to the requested pages, and respond to the client-side browser.

They usually run on TCP ports 80 or 443.

Once a Web Server acccpets a request, it routes it to the destination, run any processes needed for that request, and return the response to the user on the client-side.

There are a number of Web Servers, and the most common are:
- Apache
- NGINX
- IIS, etc

## Development Framework & API

With the increaased complixity of web apps, it is challenging to create moder nweb apps from scratch, so there are web frameworks helping on that.

Some of the most common are:
- Laravel (PHP): Usually used by startups and smaller companies, powerful and easy to develop.
- Express (Node.js)
- Django (Python)
- Rails (Ruby)

### API

For the front-end component to itneract with tthe back-end and ask for tasks to be carried, they utilize APIs to ask the back-end component for a specific task with specific input.

To enable the use of APIs within a web app, devs have to develop this functionality on the back-end by using API standards like `SOAP` or `REST`.

