# WHOIS

Widely used query and response protocol which accesses databases that store information about registered resources.

Each whois contains:
**Domain Name**: Name itself.
**Registrar**: The company where the domain was registered.
**Registrant Contact**: The person or organization that registered the domain.
**Administrative Contact**: The person who manages the domain.
**Technical Contact**: The person who handles technical issues related to the domain.
**Creation and Expiration Date**: The date of the registration of the domain and when it's set to expire.
**Name Servers**: Servers that translate the domain name into an IP address

## Scenario 1: Phishing Investigation

An email is sent to multiple employees in a company. Whois can help to reveal:
- Registration date - A few days ago.
- Registrant - Hidden behind a privacy service.
- Name servers: associated with a known bulletproff hosting provider used for malicious activities.

## Scenario 2: Malware Analysis

The malware communicates with a remote server to receive commands and exfiltrate stolen data. Whois reveals:
- Registrant: An individual using a free email service known for anonymity.
- Location: In a country with a high prevalence of cybercrime.
- Registrar: Domain was registered through a registrar with a history of lax abuse policies.

## Scenario 3: Threat Intelligence Report

A cybersecurity company tracks the activities of a threat actor group known for targeting financial institutions. Whois data on a number of domains associated with the group's past campaigns to compile a threat intelligence report.
- Registration Dates: Domains registered in clusters, shortly before major attacks.
- Registrants: Use varios aliases and fake identities.
- Name Servers: Domains often share the same name servers, suggesting a common infrastructure.
- Takedown History: Many domains have been taken down after attacks, indicating law enforcement agencies intervenation.

Whois can be used in the following way:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install whois
whois target_server
```
