# Introduction

Most web and mobile apps continuously use the back-end servers to send and receive data, and then process it in the user's device, browser or mobile phone.

To capture the requests and traffic between apps and back-end servers and manipulate these requests **Web Proxies** are used.

**Web Proxies** are specialized tools act as *man-in-the-middle* tools.

Differene with tools like **Wireshark** is that they are Network Sniffing tools which operate by analyzing all local traffic to see what is passing through network, and Web Proxies mainly work with web ports, such as HTTP/80 and HTTP/443.

The most common web proxy tools are:
- Burp Suite
- ZAP

## Proxy Setup

Both of these tools have their integrated browser which can be used.

But, in some cases we may want to use our real browser, and for that we need to setup the Proxy.

This can be done on **Firefox** for example, by going to preferences and setting up the proxy to use the web proxy listeting port. 

Both tools use **8080** by default.

Also, some 3rd party extensions can be use to make the process more straightforward, like **FoxyProxy**.

### Installing CA Certificate

We have also to install the web proxy's CA Certificates, because some HTTPS traffic may not be properly routed.

After setting the proxy go to `http://burb` and download the certificate.

For `ZAP` go to `Tools-Options-Dynamic SSL Certificate` and save it.

Then install the certificate by browsing `about:preferences#privacy` and in the bottom by clickin on `View Certificated`, then go to `Authorities` tab and `import`.

