Its the most popular open source CMS, and is highly customizable, with a large library of extensions. And this makes it also prone to vulnerabilities.

It's written in PHP and usually runs on Apache with MySQL in the backend.

## Default Wordpress File Structure

It requires a fully installed and configured LAMP stack (Linux, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL database, and PHP). It can also be installed on Windows, or MAC OSX host.

After the installation all of the files are in the webroot `var/www/html`.

Key Files are:
- index.php
- license.txt - useful information such as the version of WordPress.
- wp-activate.php - used for email activation process when setting up a new site.
- wp-admin folder - has the login page for the admin and the backend dashboard. It can be located on:
	- /wp-admin/login.php
	- /wp-admin/wp-login.php
	- /login.php
	- /wp-login.php
- xmlrpc.php - represents a feature of WP that enables data to be transmitted with HTTP acting as the transport mechanism and XML as the encoding mechanism. It has been replaced by WP REST API.

## Configuration File
`wp-config.php` has information required by WP to connect to the db, such as db name, host, username, and password, authentication keys and salts, and the db table prefix. It can be used to activate debug mode.

## Key Directories

`wp-contet` folder is where plugins and themes are stored. It has a subdirectory `uploads/`, where all uploaded files to the platform are stored. These directories should be carefully enumerated as they may lead to any sensitive data, leading to **RCE** or exploitation of other vulnerabilities or misconfigurations.

`wp-includes` has everything except for the administrative components and the themes. Core files are stored here, such as certificates, fonts, JS files, and widgets.

## User Roles

- Administrator - adding and deleting users and posts, and editing source code.
- Editor - publish and manage posts, including of other users.
- Author - publish and manage their posts.
- Contributor - Write and manage their posts but can't publish them.
- Subscriber - Normal users that can browse posts and edit their profiles.

