Best practices to prevent attacks on a WordPress site.

**Perform Regular Updates**
WordPress core, plugins and themes should be kept up-to-date.

Modify the `wp-config.php` to enable automatic updates by inserting these lines:

```php
define( 'WP_AUTO_UPDATE_CORE', true );
add_filter( 'auto_update_plugin', '__return_true' );
add_filter( 'auto_update_theme', '__return_true' );
```

**Plugin and Theme Management**
Only install trusted themes and plugins from the WordPress website. Check the reviews, popularity, number of installs, and last update date.

## Enhance Security
There are some plugins to help on this. 

They can be used as a WAF, malware scanner, monitoring, activity auditing, brute force prevention, and strong password enforcement for users.

**Sucuri Security**
A security suite with the following features:
- Security Activity Auditing
- File Integrity Monitoring
- Remote Malware Scanning
- Blacklist Monitoring

**iThemes Security**
Has more  than 30 ways to secure the site:
- 2FA
- Salts & Security Keys
- Google reCAPTCHA
- User Action Logging

**Wordfence Security**
Endpoint firewall and malware scanner:
- WAF identifies and blocks malicious traffic.
- Premium version - real-time firewall rule and malware signature updates.
- Premium version - real-time IP blacklisting to block all requests from known most malicious IPs.

## User Management
Users are often targeted, and the following best practices help to improve the overall security:
- Disable standard `admin` user and create accounts with difficult to guess usernames.
- Enforce strong passwords
- Enable 2FA.
- Restrict users' access based on the concept of least privilege.
- Audit user rights and access periodically and remove any unused accounts.

## Configuration Management
- Install a plugin that disallows user enumeration so an attacker can't gather valid usernames to be in a password spraying attack.
- Limit login attempts to prevent brute-forcing.
- Rename `wp-login.php` login page or relocate it to make it either not accessible or only accessible to certain IP addresses.

